hey Jeremy lend herewith kiteboard coach
in this video we're going to be
discussing how to take your jumps to the
next level this is designed for
intermediate level riders this is not
how to go absolutely massive or anything
like that this is just the basics of how
to go a little bit higher with your
jumps how to add a little bit more style
and how to clean up your landings a
little bit now the prerequisites for
this is I really recommend that you've
mastered at least a simple three to four
foot jump you've mastered staying upwind
you've mastered edging and you've
mastered load and pop so those are
things that can be seen in other videos
all right let's go ahead and rewind us a
little bit and put it in slow motion and
talk about all the steps so the first
thing you need to make sure is that you
have good speed and good power and that
you have a loaded bar again meaning that
you're sheeted out but still have plenty
of power you're gonna come into it
you're gonna create good pop so what I
want you to notice right here is I took
a very aggressive angle change edging
really hard on the wind to help me
create additional pop and lift at the
same time I'm pulling very hard on the
backhand now when we come out of freeze
frame I want you to notice that I'm
gonna pop hard and sheet in at the same
time like still and pulling hard on the
back that's right there I pulled really
hard pop at the same time it's gonna let
my board go behind me okay so let's
pause this again alright so what I want
you to notice is that the kites actually
at one o'clock and I'm gonna feather the
kite between 12:00 o'clock and 1 o'clock
leaving it fairly shaded in I'm gonna
shoot out a little bit more if I want to
come down so if you've gone to high
sheet out to start dropping as you start
to drop there you want to sheet in again
and you're gonna pull on the forward
hand pulling on the forward hand will
start to dive the kite again so it's
gonna go over to 12 and then start
diving down the window and it's actually
gonna create additional lift as well as
for momentum this allows you to land a
little bit softer but also with more
speed this keeps you from hitting the
water and then stalling out and sinking
because you want to land and then
continue to ride away from it now
something very important to keep in mind
is that if you're extremely high if you
did a really big jump you actually want
to feather the kite back and forth a
little bit more until you get little bit
closer to the water now as it continued
to get closer and closer to the water I
pull harder and harder on that forward
hand you really want that kite diving
alright so I'm spotting my landing I'm
going to land back foot first
feel the water okay back foot hit first
now look the kite is only about thirty
degrees above the horizon all right
let's go ahead and take a look at this
from another perspective so again coming
into this with really good speed and I
want to make sure I have a loaded bar so
what you're gonna notice right here is
that the bars pretty far sheeted out and
again that's a loaded bar now I want you
to see that the kites pretty high it's
almost to about twelve o'clock next
you're gonna see me cheat in very
aggressively so you can see that right
here I'm cheating and very quickly and
it's pulling me off the water again I'm
letting my legs just kind of fall below
me
not very much pressure on the legs kind
of let them do their thing I'm leaving a
sheathing in I'm leaving the kite at
about twelve to one o'clock
rocking it back and forth as I descend I
want you to note that I'm pulling very
hard on the forward hand spotting my
landing and continuing to dive the kite
until just a little below 45 degrees
alright let's go ahead and take a look
at this one more time but this time in
full speed so I'm coming into it kites
about 45 quickly bring it to 12 she did
launch up let my legs do their thing
pull on the floor at hand and land
alright guys get out there give it a
shot have a friend film you and submit
it to us if you're having any
difficulties